Let's consider the account that's referred to in our Watchtower comments.
If you turn with me and your Bibles to the book of Luke,
we'll read this in its entirety.
Follow with me, please, Luke chapter 10 verses 38 through 42.
It says, now as they went on their way,
he entered into a certain village.
Here a woman named Martha received him as a guest in her house.
She also had a sister called Mary,
who said down at the feet of the Lord and kept listening to what he was saying.
Martha, on the other hand, was distracted with attending to many duties.
So she came to him and said,
Lord, does it not matter to you that my sister has left me alone to attend to things?
Tell her to come and help me.
And answer the Lord said to her,
Martha, Martha, you are anxious and disturbed about many things.
A few things, though, are needed.
Or just one.
For her part, Mary chose the good portion,
and it will not be taken away from her.
Did you note in verse 40,
it said that Martha was distracted with attending to many duties.
I was quite likely that Martha may not have felt that way.
After all, she was not engaged in some sort of hobby
or materialistic pursuit.
And her duties were certainly not trivial.
She was tending to the needs of Jesus.
And we think about that.
Taking care of the Messiah, the Son of God,
that had to be one of the greatest privileges,
one of the greatest honors an individual could have.
So it's no wonder in verse 40,
she encourages Jesus to tell her sister Mary to come and help her.
But this raises an interesting question.
Is it possible for Christians today to become distracted,
even while engaging in worthwhile theocratic pursuits?
Well, consider three examples.
We want to do more in the ministry,
so we decide to learn a new language.
We focus on learning the language,
but in the process,
we neglect time to read and study the Bible in our mother tongue.
Or perhaps we decide we're going to move
and serve with a need is greater.
And we began to occupy so much of our time
and learning about the country,
its customs and the food,
that that begins to overshadow our family worship
and personal study.
Or how about our Bethel assignment?
We love our assignment.
Our work is very interesting.
We enjoy working hard.
But we become so absorbed and staying ahead
in our work and keeping things moving
that we began to do self-imposed overtime work
on a regular basis,
neglecting our meeting attendance,
perhaps even time with our mate.
Did you notice each situation began
as a worthwhile theocratic endeavor?
But can we see how it's possible
that each hypothetical situation
could become a realistic distraction?
Let's just go back for a moment
to the account in Luke,
because it's important to note that Jesus never said
that what Martha was doing was wrong.
Like our text mentioned, he loved Martha.
She was a spiritual woman,
and he was very appreciative for what she was doing
in his behalf.
But he very kindly reminds her and shows her
that her meal preparations were distracting her
to the point where it interfered
with her receiving what he refers to in verse 42
as the good portion.
A spiritual activity,
listening to his teachings.
Martha was not taking advantage
of a unique opportunity to deepen her faith.
Very interesting, the September 1st, 1999
watched our elaborates on this account.
And it makes this comment,
is this moved by love some today,
much like Martha,
do their utmost to minister
to the needs of fellow believers.
They are practical-minded and quick to action
and Jehovah promises to reward their labors of love.
Others perhaps more closely resemble Mary.
They are quiet, contemplative.
Their eagerness to meditate upon God's word
helps them to stay solidly rooted in the faith.
But then it says this,
both fill a vital need in the Christian congregation.
And by extension we'll just add
in the Bethel family as well.
It continues in the end, however,
all should choose the good portion,
by putting spiritual or primary emphasis
on spiritual things.
Well, that helps us to see the balance, doesn't it?
May we thanks perhaps in a modern day application?
What if the circuit overseer came to visit our congregation
and everyone wanted to go out and work with him in the ministry?
But no one was willing to stop
and provide him with a meal.
So that wouldn't be good with it or hospitable.
Just like it would be balanced for him
to have multiple meal invitations
and then no one showed up to support him
and his wife in the ministry.
So the point is we want to make sure
that we care for our needs and the needs of others,
but also making sure that we remember our priorities.
So what's the key to ensuring that our endeavors
will not become distractions?
Well, notice on the Bible explains this term
with me pleased to Philippians chapter 1.
In Philippians chapter 1, notice verses 9 and 10.
And this is what I continue praying,
that your love may abound still more and more
with accurate knowledge and full discernment,
that you may make sure of the more important things
so that you may be flawless
and not stumbling others up to the day of Christ.
So before we undertake any endeavor, any assignment,
you notice we want to pray, reason things out,
use accurate knowledge and discernment.
And if we're able to use that insight, good judgment,
then it's going to help us to discern or perceive
what is most important to God.
And when we know that,
well, then we can harmonize our thoughts,
our actions, our decisions accordingly.
By making sure of the more important things,
we gain Jehovah's blessing and favor.
So think about those situations we mentioned.
If we're going to learn a new language
or move what the need is greater, well, that's amazing.
It's appreciated and it's definitely needed.
In fact, we're encouraged to do it
if we have the circumstances.
And of course, in our beltful assignment,
Christ does not want to work hard to get to know our work well
and give our all to Jehovah.
But can we appreciate how Jesus shows us
a valuable and balanced lesson
that even in bureaucratic worthwhile pursuits,
we should not let anything distract
or impede our spiritual progress.
We don't want to miss opportunities to strengthen our faith,
to bond with our brothers and sisters,
and most importantly, to bond with Jehovah.
If we just go back to Luke,
notice how Luke concluded his words to Martha.
In verse 42, he says,
because Mary chose the good portion,
it will not be taken away from her.
So what she learned that day,
the commendation, the spiritual instruction from Jesus,
Mary would never forget that.
That would stay with her for the rest of her life.
And likely, we can recall a similar account,
maybe a talk, a meeting,
something that was said at the convention,
a spiritual discussion that we had with someone.
And that conversation or discussion
had a profound impact on our faith
and our relationship with the Jehovah.
Well, if you've had situations like that,
those are precious.
They're very special.
And those are things that we want to hold on to.
So what a beautiful reminder we had today
and let's not be distracted.
May we work to strengthen our spirituality
and relationship with the Jehovah
by always choosing the good portion.
And if we do, we can be assured that Jehovah
will bless our efforts.